         
         I took an Introduction to Programming class in C++ in my sophomore year of high school, but it wasn't until the second part
 of my senior year in high school when I started to take coding seriously. I started off learning Java, utilizing a crash course
 book on it. I told myself to dedicate 1hr doing the course after all my HW and before bed. I finished the course in a month
 and had a decent foundation, but wasn't confident in my skills.
         I then did 1/3 of Head First Java before I decided I needed a more structured curriculum. I decided to do Free Code Camp's
Front End Development Certification program. I was pretty passionate on it as I spent 1-2hrs on weekdays and 2-3 hrs on weekends 
just grinding through the program. One thing I recommend people do is keeping a log of how much time was spent programming each day.
By doing that you can observe the trends and behaviors in the data and know what to do better, what works, and what doesn't work.
         I finished the certification in 240hrs. Shortly after, a friend of mine at the gym told me about Google's Engineering Practicum.
(A Freshmen/Sophomore program by Google). On that note, it comes to show that just by talking to people around you you learn about
opportunities and potential doors opening for you. So just talk to the people around you, don't be afraid of looking stupid as it's all
part of the process of talking to people. 
         I started doing Coding Interview Questions on LeetCode and ByteByByte.com and also purchased a copy of Cracking the Coding Interview.
Having been almost entirely self-taught, looking back my code worked, but was pretty bad. HOWEVER, we all start somewhere and having poorly
written code is okay because we are LEARNING. 
         I entered The City College of New York and took Introduction to Computing in C++, Python, and Discrete Math Structures. I busted 
my ass in that Discrete Math class. Every quiz problem and test problem required us to construct a proof as a solution. It was very 
time-consuming and stressful and I got a C in the class, but it was WORTH IT. My logic and reasoning skills skyrocketed and when I did 
LeetCode again after the semester the questions got a lot easier. On that note of getting a C, in my opinion it is better to get a C
and LEARN IMMENSELY then cruise to an A and not learn very much. (Again use your own judgement on that)
         That Freshmen Year, I probably applied to 12-15 internships. Looking back, most of those internships I was completely
unqualified for, but at the time I didn't know that. I was rejected from all of them. But I kept my head held high through the support
and encouragement of my friends, peers, mentors, and family. 
         HACKATHONS. A hackathon is usually a 2-3 day event where people gather together in teams of usually 4-5 and try to create (hack)
together an app, technology, website in 48 or 72hrs. It does take a lot of energy, but you come away from it learning so much. One
moment that stuck out to me was at NYU's hackathon HackNYU there were 10th graders implementing Google API's with Amazon Alexa into an
app that combines traffic data and how to find the shortest route. I couldn't do that, but it made me face the reality. That competition
is fierce. Also, attending Hackathons looks good on your resume, but make sure you're contributing when you're there or you're wasting
your team's time and your own time. I attended 4 Hackathons prior to applying for Google's Engineering Practicum.
         Coding interviews for internships generally are held in the Fall for the upcoming Summer's internships. (Fall 2018 interviewing
for Summer 2019 internship). A mentor of mine advised me to learn Data Structures on my own that summer so I'll be ready for the coding 
interviews. i did that. Between delivering furniture for my parent's store, working out, and playing basketball I grinded LeetCode. 
I even invested in the premium version.
Reason because I was taking Data Structures that Fall, but I wouldn't be familiar with them enough for acing the interviews.
         It's now my Sophomore year Fall Semester, and I applied to many freshmen/sophomore internship programs like 
Google Engineering Practicum, Microsoft Explorers, Bank of America, Twiter University, Facebook University, and others. I got a phone
interview with Google. I aced the interview. 2 weeks later I got the offer. My grind and studying has paid off. NOW HOLD ON, you're 
probably thinking I studied for 1 summer and got a Google internship. NOPE. The accumulation dating back to my Java crash course days
have prepared me for that moment. 
         Now I would like to bring up a mantra I strongly believe in. And that is OPPORTUNITY COME OPPORTUNITY TAKE. A lot of times in life
we only have a small window of opportunity whether that be work, relationships, sports and that opportunity can be gone in a snap 
of a finger. We must be ready for that opportunity through preparation, but MOST IMPORTANTLY we MUST take that opportunity and see 
where that takes us. I only had 1 interview for internships this year and coming from a lesser known CS school didn't help.
But you only need 1 interview to get an internship. Good luck! 
Feel free to email me with questions: lifutaobusiness@gmail.com
         
